# Stroop-Interference-Effect-on-Eye-Movement-Experiment
The goal of this experiment is to see how eye movement (saccades) when showing words of the color of the rainbow with their congruent color (for example, an orange word with an orange color is displayed) differs from that when showing words of the color of the rainbow with an incongruent color (for example, an orange word with a green color is displayed). We predict that saccades will be greater and more erratic when words with incongruent colors are shown because the brain has to process more. 
We will test our hypothesis by running our matlab programs. 

Our first program, stroopeffect.m, is the actual experiment. For 300 iterations, it shows either a random word with its congruent color or a random word with an incongruent color. The program records the word and color of the word in two tables (.dat files). Words with congruent colors are shown in the first .dat file and words with incongruent colors are shown in the second .dat file. Right after each word and color display, the user is required to press the right key (the user has to press a key corresponding to the color of the word (for example, the right key when red with an orange color is displayed is 'o')) but the program will take any key input. This is where additional data is recorded. The program records the user's reaction time (the time it takes for the user to press a key right after a word and color display) and whether the user pressed the right key or not. Right after the user presses a key, a central black dot (called a fixation point) is shown for one second to stabilize the eye movements of the user for the next word and color display. Throughout the program, we will use an eye tracker to record the movements of the eye movements of the user.The eye tracker gives and EDF file which is converted to an .asc file. The .asc file contains the time of recording in column one, the x position of the left eye in column two, the y position of the left eye in column three, the x position of the right eye in column five, and the y position of the right eye in column six. We want to graph the eye movements during the times in between when the word and color displays happen and when the user presses a key. stroopeffect.m determines these time intervals by putting markers in the .asc corresponding to the time a word and color display shows and the time when the user presses a key after the word and color display shows for each of the 300 word and color displays.

Our analysis of the eye movements is done our three other programs: driver.m and analysis.m. analysis.m is responsible for graphing the saccades, pursuits and blinks for any congruent or incongruent color and word displays for the right eye. driver.m is overarching and is responsible for graphing 300 figures (150 for the congurent colors and 150 for the incongruent colors). Even though word and congruent color displays and word and incongruent color displays are randomized, driver.m still ensures that the first 150 plots correspond to the congruent color displays by using the first .dat file and the second 150 plots correspond to the incongruent color displays by using the second .dat file. It does this by searching for the specific markers in the .asc file and graphing data for the time interval determined by the markers. In addition, a gray word (the word depends on the specific word of the word and the color display associated with the graph) appears in the background. This word looks exactly the same as how the word and color display looked during when it was shown in stroopeffect.m except for the color. Essentially, we are trying to plot eye movements over the exact stimuli shown during stroopeffect.m since this will help us determine where the user's eyes are in relation to the stimuli. Also, the plots are titled with the word and color of the word - for example, 'GreenBlue'. Since there are 2 markers for each word and color display and 300 word and color displays, 300 plots are created. driver.m calls analysis.m to make the graphs. 

Since driver.m shows the figures such that the first 150 congruent ones are shown followed by 150 incongruent ones, arrange.m arranges the figures (after they are created by driver.m and analysis.m) in chronological order (the order of the stimuli shown in stroopeffect.m) using the chronological .dat file. In case we don't want to first generate the plots/figures then order them (as it takes a very long time to do so), arrange2.m shows what the order of the figures should be before we have to create even one figure. As a result, we can generate a small fraction of the figures then place them in the right order using the results of this program, similar to insertion sort.

Hopefully, we will see how the eye tracker's recordings differ when words with congruent colors are shown and when words with incongruent colors are shown. 
 
